The Tuples are a collection of elements that is very similar to lists, but with one important difference
they are immutable.
Once an element is assigned to a tuple, it cannot be changed or reassigned.
They are written almost the same way as LIST, but they have parentheses instead of brackets.
And you can also write them without enclosing them in anything.
And they work the same way.
But if they are so similar to lists and even more limited than lists because tuples are immutable,
why would we use tuples instead of lists?
Mainly because they take up less memory space and therefore are faster to process than lists.
Secondly, since they cannot be modified, we may use them to store structures.
We do not want to be modified.
They would be damage proof.
Let's move on to PY Charm and Federico and see tuples in action.
And to see the tuples in action we're going to come to py charm and we're going to start creating a
first variable called my tuple.
But it's going to have as a content a very simple tuple with the numbers one, two, three and four.
Remember between parentheses and separated by a comma.
And now, if I want to print to see the type of this object we're going to print here, type my tuple,
and we're going to execute it.
And going to run to the second run.
And now we choose tuples.
And we can already see that this is a tuple type class.
And as Phil explained in the introductory video, we can also do it directly without the parentheses.
If I do it this way, we still have an object of type tuple.
However, the most common is that with the parentheses.
But you can build them as you want.
I also told you that we have tuples that contain all kinds of objects.
Here I've built a tuple that has only integers, but tuples can also have any kind of object, even
objects of different values mixed in a single tuple.
Let's create a simple one called T, which will contain an integer, then a float, then a string,
and so on.
It could even have a dictionary.
It could have a list or a tuple itself inside the tuples.
In fact, we're going to see that in a moment.
But now I want to show you that I can also query that what is in the given index, as we did with the
strings.
This can also be indexed and sliced.
For example, my tuple at position number zero.
I want to print that out to this is going to tell me that a position zero one is found.
Right.
That's the first element of my table.
I can also search with negative numbers that just like strings makes it count from right to left, and
the minus two position would be three.
It should give me a three here, and it does indeed return a three.
MANJOO Tools are immutable, just like strings.
So we cannot do things like changing one of the elements inside the tuple that we already have.
Of course, we could do it by creating a new variable.
If what I want to do here, for example, is to say that now my tuple is in position zero.
I want it to be equal to five and now I want it to print my tuple and I print it.
Well, it's going to give me an error that says it's a type error.
The tuple are objects that do not support item assignment the same as the strings.
Remember?
Well, since we saw this error, we eliminate it.
Then we cannot continue this way.
And we can do other things that can be done in the list and be done in the dictionaries, which is nesting.
I can have, for example, inside my tuple one or more elements that are tuples themselves.
Suppose that here, instead of having my integer at index two, I have a tuple that contains the numbers
ten and 20, so to speak.
Is that okay?
Now if I want to query what's in my tuple at position two, let's print.
It's going to tell me that that position I have at tuple containing ten and 20.
And if I want to consult the first of the objects inside that tuple, then I have to look inside position
two.
And then in that position in the index zero of that tuple that I have there.
And then it will turn only the ten.
Is that understood?
You can do it the same way as we've also seen with the lists and the dictionaries.
The other thing that we can also do with tuples and lists is to do castings.
If I want to transform my tuple, we're going to overwrite it.
We're going to write again my temple.
And I'm going to save it this time as a list.
So I say list and in parenthesis I put my tuple.
And now if I want to just print out the type of my tuple to see what's happened now with this.
Let's close this in parentheses and print it out.
It tells us that it's a list type class.
Although I created a tuple.
Then through a casting, I put it inside a list.
And now if I come back to overwrite again, my turbo, my poor thing, and this time I put it inside
a tuple that has a content.
What is in my tuple?
Now the class type is total again.
We've gone around a couple of times.
Well, you can also do things like assign the content of a topic to different variables.
Let's say I have a tuple that's called T and it has one, two and three.
It has three elements that are all integers.
And now I want the variables X, Y, and Z to be equal.
That is to have in their content whatever is in T so far.
Notice that I don't get any errors.
Let's see what happens if I print x, y and z that returns one, two and three.
X contains the one, y has the two and Z has the three.
This could be done because we have the same amount of values and variables.
So they were assigned one by one with this simple process.
And I did not show this before, but I could have done it with the lists and also with the dictionaries.
Of course, the condition is that they are always the same number of elements.
If I would put here that I also have the variable A and I want to print this.
It will tell me that there is a value error because there are not enough values to unpack.
We were expecting four because we have four variables, but I have three values and if I had one variable
less, let's try it this way it would give me a similar error value error.
It tells me that there are too many values this time to unpack.
I was expecting two because I have X and Y and I have three values.
Well, you can do this.
We said with lists and with dictionaries as long as the number of values and variables match.
Let's try one more thing we have here this tuple that has three elements.
We're going to add one more this time a one.
I'm intentionally adding a repeated value.
We're going to do three things.
First, I ask Python to tell me what is the length.
That is the number of elements that our T has.
So here in the impression we're going to ask it to print the length.
Remember it is length.
We used it with strings and lists and the length of t if we print it, it tells us that it's four because
it has four elements.
But now I'm going to ask a different thing.
I'm going to use one of the two methods that tuples have we're going to put to the DOT so that it brings
us the methods.
These two are the methods that you have index and count.
So let's start with count.
I'm going to add it, but this method asks me for a parameter inside the parentheses, which is a value.
What it's asking me is what value do I want to count inside the tuple to know how many times it appears?
Well, I want to know how many times it pays the number one, and if I execute this it will tell me
that it appears twice.
So the count method allows you to count the number of occurrences of a value within your tuple.
And if I use the other method that is index and here we have it.
I will say inside the parentheses, which is the value on which I want to consult its index number.
Well, let's look up the value of number two.
In what index is it?
It will tell me number one.
And that's okay.
Well, we can also do this with the lists and the count as well.
Okay.
This would be all the basics about tuple.
Don't worry too much about it for now, because tuples are not a type of object that you're going to
use very much or often at the beginning of your career.
Even at the beginning of this course, they're going to get a little more prominent later on, but they're
not one of the most popular data types out there.
We're going to do a couple of exercises now to get these learnings locked in for you, and then we'll
see you in the lecture about set, which is the last of the elements or collections of elements that
we have yet to learn.
See you there.